[[introduction]]
1. Introduction
---------------

This document is intended as a reference guide to the full syntax and
semantics of AsterixDB's query language, a SQL-based language for
working with semistructured data. The language is a derivative of SQL++,
a declarative query language for JSON data which is largely backwards
compatible with SQL. SQL++ originated from research in the FORWARD
project at UC San Diego, and it has much in common with SQL; some
differences exist due to the different data models that the two
languages were designed to serve. SQL was designed for interacting with
the flat, schema-ified world of relational databases, while SQL++
generalizes SQL to also handle nested data formats (like JSON) and the
schema-optional (or even schema-less) data models of modern NoSQL and
BigData systems.

In the context of Apache AsterixDB, the query language is intended for
working with the Asterix Data Model (link:../datamodel.html[ADM]), a
data model based on a superset of JSON with an enriched and flexible
type system. New AsterixDB users are encouraged to read and work through
the (much friendlier) guide "link:primer-sqlpp.html[AsterixDB 101: An
ADM and SQL++ Primer]" before attempting to make use of this document.
In addition, readers are advised to read through the
link:../datamodel.html[Asterix Data Model (ADM) reference guide] first
as well, as an understanding of the data model is a prerequisite to
understanding the query language.

In what follows, we detail the features of the query language in a
grammar-guided manner. We list and briefly explain each of the
productions in the query grammar, offering examples (and results) for
clarity.
